Are you convinced that Jehovah wants you to rejoice?
We have many reasons to believe that.
Creation is one such proof.
In the beginning, the Bible teaches that Jehovah worked very hard to make our home a delightful
place to live here on planet Earth.
This included his creating millions of different species of plants and animals.
And when he finished with all this amazing activity, do you know what our Creator did next?
At the end of the sixth creative day, the Bible tells us at Genesis 1 and verse 31, God
saw everything He had made, and look, it was very good.
Think about that.
After working hard over perhaps the course of thousands of years, our Father paused.
He inspected everything, and then He rejoiced in all that He had made.
Brothers and sisters, the beauty and wisdom in creation proves that our Heavenly Father
wants us to enjoy life on planet Earth.
In fact, He wants us to join Him in rejoicing over all that He has made.
But how can we do that?
The Bible gives us a clue at Psalm 111 and verse 2.
I invite you, please, to open your Bible and read along with all of us Psalm 111, verse
2.
It says, The works of Jehovah are great.
They are studied by all those finding pleasure in them.
We see clearly in the Bible that Jehovah invites us to look closely at the things He has
made so that we can learn from them, and doing so is a delightful experience.
So let's do that together.
In this symposium, we will examine six of Jehovah's many works and our God-given ability
to enjoy them all.
First we'll focus our attention on exquisite flowers.
Then our next speaker will talk about one of our favorite things, delicious food.
Next we will discuss beautiful colors, our well-designed bodies, delightful sounds, and
lastly fascinating animals.
Each talk in this series will also teach us scriptural lessons from creation that can
help us rejoice in life even now in these difficult last days.
Well are you as ready as I am?
Let's start by looking closely at exquisite flowers.
In the following video, I invite you to look for the answers to these three questions.
First, how many species of flowering plants are there?
Second, what practical needs do flowers serve?
And third, how can flowers help us when we get anxious?
Please enjoy the video.
The earth has more than 350,000 species of flowering plants.
Flowers serve practical needs.
Flowers make pollen in order to reproduce and nectar for creatures that spread pollen.
Pollination produces nutritious seeds, fruits and vegetables.
The beautiful flower we see may look like this to be.
Some flowers reflect ultraviolet light in ways that create a hard to mistarget.
We enjoy more than the flowers beauty and aroma.
Yet some plants do not need beautiful flowers to reproduce.
Flowers, pollen, nectar and aromas are costly for plants to produce.
Those resources could be used for other purposes.
Plans make flowers in breathtaking abundance.
The hover generously created flowers in a way that brings us joy
and reminds us to trust him when we are anxious.
Take a lesson from the lilies of the field.
How they grow, they do not toil nor do they spin.
But not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these.
Did that video stir within you a desire to get to know Jehovah's creative works even better?
Jehovah designed us to enjoy the beauty of flowers and their lovely fragrances.
Can you imagine trying to study all 350,000 species of flowering plants?
Admiring their beauty, smelling them and maybe even making a drawing or taking a photo of each one?
You know, if you started today and spent a little time every day getting to know a different flower,
your study project would take a little over 958 years.
It's a good thing we're going to live forever, isn't it?
But in addition to seeing the beauty and flowers,
as we've learned in the video, flowers play an important role in our ecosystem.
Flowers make pollen in order to reproduce and nectar for creatures like the bees that spread pollen.
In turn, pollination produces nutritious seeds, fruits and vegetables.
Thanks to the flowers, we have food to eat and how we marvel at the ingenious design that's evident in all things in creation.
Many people today enjoy looking at creation, but few realize that when they do so,
they're actually getting a glimpse into the mind and heart of our loving creator, Jehovah.
Well, that's not true of us, though, is it?
Because we know who Jehovah is.
When we carefully observe all the things he has made, we naturally think of him,
our drawn closer to him and to his beautiful qualities.
At one point in life, the faithful man Job was reminded by his friend Elihu to stop and consider carefully the wonderful works of God.
Do you recall how that advice helped Job?
As Job learned, our joy increases when we're focused on Jehovah and on his works instead of on ourselves.
Parents and young ones, this is a good lesson for all of us,
following the advice given to Job can also draw us closer to Jehovah.
How much better that is than spending time with much of the world's entertainment that is debased?
Such pre-packaged entertainment is often designed to turn us away from Jehovah, not draw us closer to him.
But what about spending time observing Jehovah's works?
Now, that's a wholesome pastime with a future.
Observing flowers may also bring to our mind another lesson, one that Jesus taught.
Please open your Bible again to Matthew 6 and we'll read together verses 28 to 30.
In the reading, look for the answer to the following question.
How can flowers help us when we get anxious?
Let's read Matthew 6 verses 28 to 30.
Jesus said,
Also, why are you anxious about clothing?
Take a lesson from the lilies of the field how they grow.
They do not toil, nor do they spend.
But I tell you that not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these.
Now, if this is how God closed the vegetation of the field that is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven,
will he not much rather clothe you with little faith?
How heartwarming.
Have you ever been anxious about food and clothing?
If so, you're not alone.
Among those listening to Jesus on this occasion were many poor people who had the same natural concerns.
But Jesus encouraged them.
How so?
By reminding them to take a lesson from the flowers.
Jesus knew what we know.
Jehovah generously created flowers in a way that brings us joy and reminds us to trust him when we are anxious.
When we see how well Jehovah takes care of all the flowers, we're reminded of how generous he is and his loving care of humans.
And like Jehovah, when we give generously to others and help care for their needs when it's within the power of our hand to do so,
we too will experience the joy that comes from giving.
Dear ones, may we never forget that it was Jehovah who gave us the ability to appreciate exquisite flowers.
May doing just that bring you joy and add to your praise of Jehovah forever.
Now, Brother Ralph Walls, who serves as a helper to the Personnel Committee, will present the next talk of this symposium.
Creation proves that Jehovah wants us to rejoice, delicious food.